[DOCS] Bulk update API keys API (#89215)
elastic/elasticsearch: x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/security/bulk-update-api-keys.asciidoc

This API supports updates to API key access scope and metadata.
The access scope of each API key is derived from the <<security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-api-key-role-descriptors,`role_descriptors`>> you specify in the request, and a snapshot of the owner user's permissions at the time of the request.
The snapshot of the owner's permissions is updated automatically on every call.

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you don't specify <<security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-api-key-role-descriptors,`role_descriptors`>> in the request, a call to this API might still change an API key's access scope.
This change can occur if the owner user's permissions have changed since the API key was created or last modified.
====

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

You can specify the following parameters in the request body.

`ids`:: (Required, list) The IDs of the API keys to update.

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-api-key-role-descriptors]]
`role_descriptors`::
(Optional, object) The role descriptors to assign to the API keys.

> An API key's effective permissions are an intersection of its assigned privileges and the point in time snapshot of permissions of the owner user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An API key's effective permissions are an intersection of its assigned privileges and the point-in-time snapshot of permissions of the owner user.
```

You can assign new privileges by specifying them in this parameter.

> To remove assigned privileges, you can supply an empty `role_descriptors` parameter, i.e., an empty object `{}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove assigned privileges, supply the `role_descriptors` parameter as an empty object `{}`.
```

If an API key has no assigned privileges, it inherits the owner user's full permissions.
The snapshot of the owner's permissions is always updated, whether you supply the `role_descriptors` parameter or not.
The structure of a role descriptor is the same as the request for the <<security-api-put-role, create or update roles API>>.

`metadata`::

> (Optional, object) Arbitrary metadata that you want to associate with the API keys.
> It supports nested data structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, object) Arbitrary, nested metadata to associate with the API keys.

```

> Within the `metadata` object, top-level keys beginning with `_` are reserved for system usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the `metadata` object, top-level keys beginning with an underscore (`_`) are reserved for system usage.
```

> When specified, this fully replaces metadata previously associated with the API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any information specified with this parameter fully replaces metadata previously associated with the API key.
```

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}

A successful request returns a JSON structure that contains the IDs of all updated API keys, the IDs of API keys that already had the requested changes and did not require an update, and <<security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-examples-errors, error details>> for any failed update.

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

> For the examples below, assume a user creates two API keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the examples below, assume that a user creates two API keys.
```

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys]]
=== Bulk update API keys API

++++
<titleabbrev>Bulk update API keys</titleabbrev>
++++

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`POST /_security/api_key/_bulk_update`

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

* To use this API, you must have at least the `manage_own_api_key` cluster privilege.
Users can only update API keys that they created or that were granted to them.
To update another user's API key, use the <<run-as-privilege,`run_as` feature>>

> to submit a request on behalf of another user.

Author: Only the owner user can update an API key though so `manage_api_key` or even `all` won't work here, or am I getting my wires crossed here?

> to submit a request on behalf of another user.

Reviewer 2: Ugh you are right. I was cross comparing this to other pages and forgot about this is speical. Please disregard.

The access scope of each API key is derived from the <<security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-api-key-role-descriptors,`role_descriptors`>> you specify in the request, and a snapshot of the owner user's permissions at the time of the request.
The snapshot of the owner's permissions is updated automatically on every call.

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you don't specify <<security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-api-key-role-descriptors,`role_descriptors`>> in the request, a call to this API might still change an API key's access scope.
This change can occur if the owner user's permissions have changed since the API key was created or last modified.
====

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

You can specify the following parameters in the request body.

`ids`:: (Required, list) The IDs of the API keys to update.

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-api-key-role-descriptors]]
`role_descriptors`::
(Optional, object) The role descriptors to assign to the API keys.
An API key's effective permissions are an intersection of its assigned privileges and the point in time snapshot of permissions of the owner user.

> If no privileges are assigned, the API key inherits the owner user's full permissions.
> You can assign new privileges by specifying them in this parameter.
> To remove assigned privileges, you can supply an empty `role_descriptors` parameter.

Reviewer 2: We went over this previously. But somehow it still reads a bit confusing to me. I feel users may still be baffled with "no privileges", "remove assigned privileges" and "leave out this parameter". How about we re-arrange and adjust it a bit like the follows?
```suggestion
You can assign new privileges by specifying them in this parameter.
To remove assigned privileges, you can supply an empty `role_descriptors` parameter, i.e. an empty object `{}`.
If an API key has no assigned privileges, it inherits the owner user's full permissions.
```

Author: I'm good with this rephrasing. I feel like I've stared at this paragraph so much I don't know what's clear anymore 😅 but I like your proposed phrasing 👍

[source,console]
----
POST /_security/api_key/_bulk_update
{
  "ids": [
    "VuaCfGcBCdbkQm-e5aOx",
    "H3_AhoIBA9hmeQJdg7ij"
  ],
  "role_descriptors": {
    "role-a": {
      "index": [
        {
          "names": ["*"],
          "privileges": ["write"]
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "metadata": {
    "environment": {
       "level": 2,
       "trusted": true,
       "tags": ["production"]
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[skip:api key ids not available]

A successful call returns a JSON structure indicating that the API keys were updated:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "updated": [
    "VuaCfGcBCdbkQm-e5aOx",
    "H3_AhoIBA9hmeQJdg7ij"
  ],
  "noops": []
}
----

Both API keys' effective permissions after the update will be the intersection of the supplied role descriptors and the <<security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-examples-user-permissions, owner user's permissions>>:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "index": [
    {
      "names": ["*"],
      "privileges": ["write"]
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

> The following example removes the API keys' previously assigned permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example removes the API keys' previously assigned permissions to make them inherits full permissions of the owner user.
```

[source,console]
----
POST /_security/api_key/_bulk_update
{
  "ids": [
    "VuaCfGcBCdbkQm-e5aOx",
    "H3_AhoIBA9hmeQJdg7ij"
  ],
  "role_descriptors": {}
}
----
// TEST[skip:api key ids not available]

Which returns the response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "updated": [
    "VuaCfGcBCdbkQm-e5aOx",
    "H3_AhoIBA9hmeQJdg7ij"
  ],
  "noops": []
}
----

> The API keys' effective permissions after the update will the same as the <<security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-examples-user-permissions, owner user's>>:

Reviewer 2: Since the owner user's role is list immediately below this, I think we can remove the link here. Clicking the link for the same information does not seem to be a great read experience.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "cluster": ["manage_security"],
  "index": [
    {
      "names": ["*"],
      "privileges": ["read"]
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

If any API keys fail to update, error details are included in the `errors` field.
For example:

[[security-api-bulk-update-api-keys-examples-errors]]
[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "updated": ["VuaCfGcBCdbkQm-e5aOx"],
  "noops": [],
  "errors": { <1>
    "count": 3,
    "details": {
       "g_PqP4IBcBaEQdwM5-WI": { <2>
         "type": "resource_not_found_exception",
         "reason": "no API key owned by requesting user found for ID [g_PqP4IBcBaEQdwM5-WI]"
       },
       "OM4cg4IBGgpHBfLerY4B": {
         "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
         "reason": "cannot update invalidated API key [OM4cg4IBGgpHBfLerY4B]"
       },
       "Os4gg4IBGgpHBfLe2I7j": {
         "type": "exception",
         "reason": "error occurred while updating API key",
         "caused_by": { <3>
           "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
           "reason": "security index failure"
         }

>        }

Reviewer 2: Nit: This isn't a real exception. I'll probably just leave it out since it does not really add much.

Author: True. I just wanted there to be a `caused_by` in the example. Would you be more comfortable keeping it if we put in a more realistic caused_by?

Reviewer 2: I am fine with a more realistic one. I guess version conflict might be a reasonable candidate.

    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

> <1> Details about any errors encountered.
> This field is not present in the response when `count` is 0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> This field is not present in the response when the error `count` is 0.
```
Since we have an actual field named `details`, saying this field is "Details about ..." is a bit awkward and redundant.
